From heinz.knutzen at gmx.de  Sun Jan  2 23:27:27 2011
From: heinz.knutzen at gmx.de (Heinz Knutzen)
Date: Sun, 02 Jan 2011 23:27:27 +0100
Subject: [Netspoc-users] NetSPoC 3.2 released
Message-ID: <4D20FBCF.9020706@gmx.de>

I just released Netspoc version 3.2.
It is available at http://prdownload.berlios.de/netspoc/Netspoc-3.2.tar.gz

New features:
     * Support for Cisco ASA devices as packet filter, as VPN gateway 
and for LAN-to-LAN IPSec tunnels.
     * Support "easy VPN" at Cisco VPN clients.
     * Generated chains for Linux iptables are highly optimized now. 
Deeply nested chains are generated to minimize the number of tests for 
each checked packet.
     * Support port address translation (PAT) to an interface for PIX 
and ASA.

Language:
     * Changed syntax for defining crypto tunnels to support multiple 
VPN gateways.
     * Renamed attribute "nat = .." at interface to "bind_nat = ..". 
This allows better distinction between binding and definition of NAT.
     * Allow multiple NAT tags at attribute bind_nat of an interface. 
This simplifies definition of NAT for devices with multiple interfaces.
     * Extended concept of secondary packet filter to "primary" packet 
filter. All rules which pass a primary filter are implemented as 
secondary filters on other devices
     * Enhanced policy definitions to support template rule-sets which 
operate individually on each element of "users". This uses new keyword 
'foreach' and nested expressions with 'user'. This concept replaces 
'any:[local]' from previous versions.
     * Added automatic group "network:[any:xx]", the group of all 
networks inside a security domain.
     * Removed "interface:xx.[back]". This was not widely used and can 
easily be expressed with complement: "interface:xx.[all] & ! 
interface:xx.[auto]".
     * Renamed "interface:xx.[front]" back to the old syntax 
"interface:xx.[auto]" which was still valid syntax in previous versions.
     * Added attribute "crosslink" for networks. A crosslink network 
combines two or more routers to a cluster of routers. Filtering occurs 
only at the outside interfaces of the cluster. The crosslink interfaces 
permit any traffic because traffic has already been filtered by some 
other device of the cluster.
     * Added attribute "no_in_acl" for interfaces. With this attribute, 
no incoming ACL is generated for an interface. Outgoing ACLs are added 
to all other interfaces of the same device instead.
     * Networks with isolated and promiscuous ports (RFC 5517) are 
supported now. Added attribute "isolated_ports" at networks and 
attribute "promiscuous_port" at interfaces. If a network has attribute 
"isolated_ports", hosts inside this network are not allowed to talk 
directly to each other. Instead the traffic must go through an interface 
which is marked as "promiscuous_port".
     * Hosts no longer support multiple IP addresses, but only single IP 
addresses or ranges.
     * Attribute "owner" no longer holds simple strings, but references 
to one or more 'admin', which has name and email address.

Other:
     * Added the concept of 'private' configuration contexts. This 
allows to partition the configuration files in a multi user environment 
such that one user can't define rules for network objects which belong 
to another user.
     * Added consistency check: All interfaces and hosts of a network 
must be located in that part of the network which doesn't overlap with 
some subnet.
     * Pathrestriction at a border interface of a loop is supported now. 
Valid paths inside a loop can now be defined individually depending on 
the interface where the loop is entered.
     * Unmanaged device is allowed to have pathrestriction now.
     * Processing for large topology with clusters of loops has been 
optimized. A cluster of loops is a set of loops which are connected by a 
single node (network or router).
     * Checks for unenforceable, duplicate and redundant rules have been 
added.
     * A check for duplicate elements in groups has been added.
     * iptables-restore is used now to load rules for iptables.
     * Default values for command line options of netspoc can be defined 
in a file named 'config' in toplevel directory of netspoc configuration.
     * Added command line tool "print-group" which reads a netspoc 
configuration and prints the contents of a group.

Bug fixes:
     * The result of interface.xx.[back] was always empty if interface 
was located inside a loop.
     * There was a bug when printing the result of check for missing 
transient any rules. The result was only printed if some rule was 
missing more than once.
     * Fixed bug in check for missing transient any rules when comparing 
stateless rules.

For more changes and details look at http://netspoc.berlios.de/ChangeLog .

-- Heinz



